![Copernica Summit](Copernicacom/copernica-summit-248x165.jpg)An entire
day filled with inspiration, tips, tricks, trends and great speakers
from the online marketing world! \

The Copernica Summit is a fun and interactive day dedicated to the
latest trends, tips and cases in the field of direct marketing. The
event itself is supported by several media partners such as
[Twinkle](http://twinklemagazine.nl/),
[Marketingtribune](http://www.marketingtribune.nl/),
[Thuiswinkel.org](http://www.thuiswinkel.org/home),
[Marketingfacts](http://marketingfacts.nl/),
[Sprout](http://www.sprout.nl/) and many others.

Special morning program for users and partners
----------------------------------------------

Just like last year the Copernica Summit is divided into two parts. The
morning contains a [special training
program](https://www.copernica.com/en/support/copernica-summit/program-copernica-summit#usermorning)
for Copernica users. Here you will learn more about the software's
possibilities and how to use the different features of Copernica even
better than you do now. Furthermore, you will be able to become a
certified Copernica user.\
\
![Copernica Summit keynote
morning](../images/copernica-summit-spreker.png "Copernica Summit keynote morning")

Parallel to the user morning, there will be an [exclusive morning
program](https://www.copernica.com/en/support/copernica-summit/program-copernica-summit#partnermorning)
for the directors of the top-100 internet agencies in the Netherlands
and our Copernica partners. An exclusive morning dedicated to the latest
trends and growth opportunities for online agencies towards 2014 and
onwards. Last year's speakers were Jonathan MacDonald, Wim Andrea and
Johannes Hartman. This year there will be several other inspiring
speakers.

International keynote program & interactive sessions!
-----------------------------------------------------

[The afternoon
program](https://www.copernica.com/en/support/copernica-summit/program-copernica-summit#experts)
of the Copernica Summit is open to all visitors! Choose 5 of the 25
different sessions you want to attend. This year's Summit has an amazing
international keynote program. One of this year's speakers is Jamie
Turner, one of the world's most renowned experts in the field of digital
marketing. He is the specialist when it comes to the latest trends in
the field of social media, email and digital marketing. In others words,
a must-see at the Copernica Summit. Parallel to the keynote program
there is a wide range of interactive sessions. Each session is presented
by market leaders who are happy to share their knowledge and expertise
with our visitors. During these sessions you'll come across cases, tips,
tricks and trends that you can use and apply yourself the very next
day.\
\
![Copernica Summit afternoon
keynote](../images/copernica-summit-zaal.png "Copernica Summit afternoon keynote")

When visiting the Copernica Summit you will have your own personal
program. You can select the sessions you would like to attend well in
advance of the event. As soon as we finalize the program of the Summit,
you will be notified as a visitor enabling you to put together your own
program.

When you're not attending one of the sessions during the day, you will
be able to turn to [our
partners](https://www.copernica.com/en/support/find-a-partner)
throughout the entire day for questions concerning online marketing and
[Copernica Marketing
Software](http://www.copernica.com "Copernica Marketing Software"). Or
you can network with the other visitors in between sessions.
