The fourth edition of the Copernica Summit was a success. More than 700
marketers came to the Media Plaza in Utrecht on September 17th for an
entire day dedicated to the latest trends, tips, tricks and developments
in the field of email marketing, social and mobile. Several
(inter)national marketing experts shared their knowledge and vision with
the many visitors. After a morning program filled with training
sessions, the afternoon offered an extensive choice of sessions with 5
inspiring keynotes and 20 other parallel sessions.\
\
[Impression Copernica Summit
2013](http://www.copernica.com/de/support/copernica-summit/impression-copernica-summit-2013 "Impression Copernica Summit 2013")

**International keynotes and interesting cases**

The Copernica Summit offered some great keynote presentations this year.
One of them was the keynote by digital marketing guru Jamie Turner, who
showed the visitor how to implement channels such as email, mobile and
social to obtain online success. Jamie made it clear to the visitor that
just a few small changes is already enough to become succesful. \
\

![Copernica Summit
keynote](Copernicacom/copernica-summit-polar.jpg "Copernica Summit keynote")

Next to Turner, there were four other keynote sessions during the
afternoon. Zakaria Amlal of Gracious Studios presented the success case
of Body&Fitshop.nl. This webshop was able to grow from a small webshop
to a webshop with over 1 million visitors per month. And they did this
by making smart use of email marketing, marketing automation and
optimizing design.

Jorij Abraham of Thuiswinkel.org and Shopping2020 revealed a small part
of the findings of the research he is presenting at Shopping Today. He
presented his 9 key findings he and his study group uncovered when
visiting Silicon Valley earlier this year. Bart van de Biezen of
interactive agency AanZee presented together with Van der Valk Hotels
about the next step in adaptive design. During this keynote, Bart
explained how marketers should proceed when optimizing websites and
email for mobile use and what steps you need to take and mind.\
\

![Copernica Summit session
full](Copernicacom/copernica-summit-session.jpg "Copernica Summit session full")

The Copernica Summit was finally concluded with two inspiring sessions.
Emiel Bruijntjes, CTO of Copernica Marketing Software presenterd
[MailerQ](http://www.mailerq.com) to the visitors. MailerQ is a high end
mail transfer agent, enabling its users to send out high volumes of
email at high speeds. Tamar van de Paal, Marketing Manager Benelux of
Google was the day’s closing keynote and presented Google’s findings on
performance marketing and how this impacts our marketingcampaigns.

**A busy morning program**

The morning program of the Copernica Summit was also attended by many
visitors. The morning consisted of two different parts. For Copernica
partners and the agency directors of the top 100 Dutch internet
agencies, Copernica had set up an exclusive program.

Jamie Turner shared his vision with the agencies and showed them how
they can get better results from cross channel marketing together with
their clients. He focused on different trends and growth opportunities.
Turner was followed by PK Vaish (of Livelink UK) and Hans Anton
Verschoor (Redhotminute) who both talked about renewing revenue models
and innovations important for internet agencies.\
\

![Copernica Summit certification in the
morning](Copernicacom/copernica-summit-morning.jpg "Copernica Summit certification in the morning")

During the user morning, Copernica users were able to attend several
training sessions. In these sessions they got to see how they could get
better results from Copernica Marketing Software. After each training
session, users were able to take a test and become a certified user of
Copernica Marketing Software.

**Copernica Partner of the Year Award**

During the opening of the afternoon program, Copernica announced the
winners for the Copernica Partner of the Year award and the award for
best newcomer 2013. These awards were introduced last year to reward
those Copernica partners who have proven themselves within the Copernica
partner network last year.\
\

![ISM Copernica Partner of the
Year](Copernicacom/ISM-partner-of-the-year.jpg "ISM Copernica Partner of the Year")

When selecting the nominees and winner for the Copernica partner of the
Year award, these are some of the factors that determine the nominees:
increase of revenue, participating at events and joint marketing efforts
such as writing articles together.

Best newcomer of 2013 is Digitalbits BV.\
 And the Copernica Partner of the year 2013 is…ISM eCompany.
Congratulations to both partners from the entire Copernica team!

**See what it was like at the Copernica Summit 2013**

Have a look at [our
pictures](http://www.copernica.com/en/support/copernica-summit/impression-copernica-summit-2013)
or watch [our video
report](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBtPp6N7LBw&feature=youtu.be) of
the event. Did you miss one of the presentations? You can have a look at
[the English
presentations](https://www.copernica.com/en/support/copernica-summit/speakers-copernica-summit)
here.
