**Creating HTML newsletters for mobile use**
============================================

Mobile is a channel you can no longer ignore these days. Especially not
when you are creating HTML newsletters. More and more recipients read
your email on their smartphone or tablet. Below you will find several
tips that help you create your mobile-friendly HTML newsletters.

### \
**Optimizing CSS for mobile**

A frequent phenomenon when reading email on mobile phones are the style
adjustments made by mobile browsers. This can be prevented by using CSS
(Cascading Style Sheets). By placing the following code in the
\<head\>-tag of your newsletter, mobile browsers will not adjust the
font size.

`<style type=”text/css”>   body {-webkit-text-size-adjust:none;}   div, p, a, li, td {-webkit-text-size-adjust:none;}   </style> `

This indicates a font size may not be altered (when displaying the
newsletter on a mobile display). When you use CSS in your HTML
newsletter, make sure you use inline CSS! Many email programs tend to
remove CSS code from the \<head\>-tag.\
 Within the software you can automatically [convert block style elements
to inline style attributes](#).

### **Creating your HTML newsletters**

Make sure your recipient does not need to scroll that much when opening
your newsletters. A good start is to place your index at the top of the
newsletter. This allows the recipient to decide whether or not he would
like to continue reading.\
\
 When creating the newsletter, do not exceed a width of 640 pixels.
Emails that have a width suitable for mobile use, increase interaction
with the recipient and in the long run your CTR (click-through rate).
Most mobile phones (smartphones) have a display of approximately 320 to
480 pixels in width (an iPhone's display is 320px wide upright and 480px
when flipped over). When your newsletter is anywhere under 640 pixels
wide, it will be already legible before you zoom in.

### **Keep that finger in mind**

When opening your newsletter on their mobile or tablet, your readers
won't have that mouse to scroll or click on anything. They have their
fingers. That is why next to width, you will have to think about
creating and styling your hyperlinks and call-to-actions (CTA) too. A
common frustration amongst mobile readers is having a hard time opening
hyperlinks or CTA's because these are too small to open on the display
or they're not clearly highlighted.\
\
 This problem can be solved by effectively using a simple and fluid
design. Use one column and put all that spacing to good use. One finger
covers approximately 45 pixels on your mobile display. By adding a
padding of 10 to 15 pixels to your CTA's, you make it easier to click on
and prevents a lot of frustration. Another nice little extra is adding a
'display:block' to your CTA. This increases the area around your CTA,
but you can't see the increase because of the padding around your CTA.\
\
 Or you could also just give your hyperlinks a larger font size. This
way, you highlight your most valuable information and it makes your
newsletters easier to scan.

### \
**Watch out for file size**

Don't forget that a mobile internet connection is a lot slower than that
fiberglass connection you've got at work! Attaching a PDF or several
images, all 300Kb or more in size, won't work for your mobile readers.
These type of emails will be very hard to open. The less file size you
add to your HTML newsletters, the better.

### \
**What comes after your email?**

Finished creating your 'mobile-friendly' emails? Don't forget that the
landing page your newsletter links to has to be mobile-friendly too.
It's of very little use to create newsletters that function perfectly on
mobile, when the pages they link to look plain awful on a mobile device.
The next time you send them an email, your readers won't be to keen to
click through. That's why you have to make sure you:

-   Give your landing pages the correct width.
-   Keep your content to-the-point. Redirect your readers to other web
    pages for further detailed information. Mobile readers that want to
    know more, will most likely visit your website when they get back
    behind their PC.
-   Do you use Flash on your landing pages? You might want to replace
    this with HTML5, CSS3 or Javascript. iPhone and Blackberry don't
    support Flash. Android does but has a long load time. That is why it
    is best to avoid Flash.
-   Links do not have a hover-state on mobile displays. This means you
    cannot hover over a link or image to see whether or not it concerns
    a hyperlink. Touching the screen results in a click. You need to
    make it clear to the reader what is a hyperlink and what is a CTA.

### **Testing your email for mobile use**

The last point of attention still is a very important one. The points
above are all good improvements for your email. But this does not mean
you just adapt these to your email and start sending. Test all
adjustments first to see if it all works. Are your hyperlinks properly
functioning? Is the set style adapted? Are your landing pages displayed
correctly? As soon as you are sure everything is in good order, and both
your mobile and other readers will receive your HTML newsletter, you can
press send.
