**August 24, 08.10 uur (CET) -**Though we are working hard on optimizing
the application's performance, you might experience some delays in
working with the software today. To decrease the workload to our server
park and data storage, we installed and activated extra database servers
last night. It can occur that emailings scheduled from August 23, 19.00
encountered delays. Delayed emailings will be sent out as soon as
possible.

A large number of accounts are now divided over multiple database
servers, reducing the workload on the servers and the data storage.
These additional servers had been installed before, but couldn’t be
activated due to precautionary measures.

During the activation of the new databases no data was lost. No
additional actions of our users are required.

**Overcapacity through even more servers and enhanced algorithms**\
 To prevent interruptions like the ones you might have experienced in
the last week from happening, we scheduled the installation of even more
servers. Also, our R&D department is working on enhancing our algorithms
and an optimized way to divide data traffic.

These steps will lead to us having an overcapacity, ensuring an
excellent performance of the application in the near future.

Our apologies for any inconvenience caused.

* * * * *

### Systeemupdate: onderhoudswerkzaamheden

**24 augustus, 08.10 uur (CET) -**Hoewel we hard aan het werk zijn om de
algehele prestaties van de applicatie te verbeteren, bestaat de kans dat
je vandaag nog last hebt van storingen. Om de druk op het serverpark en
data-opslag te verminderen, hebben we gisteravond extra database-servers
geactiveerd. Het kan voorkomen dat ingeplande e-mailings vanaf 23
augustus 19.00 uur vertraging opliepen. Vertraagde e-mailings kunnen op
dit moment in de wachtrij staan, maar worden alsnog verzonden.

Een groot aantal accounts is nu verdeeld over meerdere database-servers,
waardoor de druk op de servers en de data-opslag is afgenomen. Deze
additionele servers waren al eerder geïnstalleerd, maar konden vanwege
voorzorgsmaatregelen nog niet worden geactiveerd.

Tijdens het activeren van de nieuwe database-servers zijn geen gegevens
verloren gegaan. Naar aanleiding van deze werkzaamheden hoeven
gebruikers geen handelingen te verrichten.

**Overcapaciteit door nog meer servers en verbeterde algoritmes**\
 Voor de komende periode staan er maatregelen op de planning om de
werking van de applicatie te verbeteren. Zo installeren we binnenkort
nog meer servers en werkt onze R&D-afdeling aan verbeterde algoritmes en
een optimale verdeling van het dataverkeer.

Deze stappen leiden er toe dat we een overcapaciteit krijgen, waardoor
we in de nabije toekomst een stabiele applicatie met een goede
performance waarborgen.

Onze excuses voor het eventuele ongemak.
