# Follow up editor

Follow up editor is a new tool that allows creating follow up actions inside our
drag and drop editor. It can be used with heading box, button box, image box,
text box, webversion box, unsubscribe box and a video box. Click on the box and
go to the follow up tab and click on a campaign button. You should be greeted
with a small sample campaign. Of course, you will want to change that default
campaign. You can do that by clicking on edit above the sample campaign.

While in the follow up editor, you can create your campaign by dragging and
dropping boxes from the menu to the canvas. Boxes should be connected to each
other with links. Links connecting box from the top are the input links and
links connecting box from the bottom are the output links.

## How to start?

A follow up campaign starts with a trigger. Usually, one will be generated by
default. You can easily recognize trigger boxes by orange background and smaller
size than any other box.

## Actions

A follow up with just a trigger box doesn't do anything by itself. For follow up
to affect profiles you need action boxes. These boxes change profiles or send
emails. When an action box is placed, it needs to be configured before it can be
properly processed when a link is clicked.

The update profile box will need a field, impression or custom data name and
a value to set.

The send email box will need a template and email settings like the subject,
sender name and sender address to be set. A send email box will send an email
message to a destination immediately. You can't define a delay or schedule for
the email, but you can use a delay box to achieve a similar result. Destination
will be the same as the email that initiated the follow up.

After action box is processed, the follow up will proceed to all other boxes
connected to the action box from the bottom.

## Decisions

Sometimes, it's needed to take action only in certain cases. Decision box can
to that. Decision box doesn't change anything by itself. Instead, it checks for
a certain condition. When processed, decision box passes the result of processing
to all the links. Links from a decision box have a label with condition that
should be fulfilled to continue with that link.

Right now you can check if a destination is unsubscribed or compare
certain field, interest or custom property to a value.

## Delays

Sometimes it's needed to take actions in the future. Delay box can be used to
do that. Delay box holds execution of a follow up for fixed amount of time. After
the time is up, all boxes connected to delay box will be processed.

## Custom functionality

When you need some extra functionality, you can program it with JavaScript inside
the follow up editor. Just pick a Decision or Execute box from the advanced
category and you will be presented with a JavaScript editor. Inside that editor,
you can use [Copernica scripting API](./followups-scripting.md) for defining your
very own logic.

Execute box will just execute the JavaScript and will proceed with any other box
connected to it.

Decision box will execute the JavaScript and pass the output of the script to
all connected links. Each link can be configured to accept only an output that
fulfills specific criteria. This can be done after the links are created.

You can use same variables as with [**data-script** attribute](./followups-scripting.md).
