Copernica offers an integration with Google Analytics that allows you to
track the behaviour of your subscribers even better. The integration is
available for free for all users of Copernica.

![google analytics logo](../images/google-analytics-logo.png)

*Integration with Google Analytics is integrated into the standard
software and available for all users of Copernica.*

Google Analytics and email campaigns
------------------------------------

A lot of marketers utilize Google Analytics to track their website
visitors and to see where they came from.

How does it work?
-----------------

Copernica allows you to add campaign specific information to referring
hyperlinks in your emailings. Google Analytics then uses this
information to distinguish between the different sources where your
visitors come from. This way, visitors from your newsletter can be
easily traced back to your Copernica campaigns.

Add a source ('Copernica'), a medium ('Email') and a campaign name (for
example, 'Newsletter-apr-2011') to all hyperlinks you include in an
email. Furthermore, you use a content element indicating which specific
hyperlink it concerns. For example, when using a clickable image and a
text link in the intro text of an article of your newsletter. If both of
them refer to the same page on your website, the content element will
help you determine what works best.

![Google Analytics UTM tags in Copernica Marketing
Software](../images/enl-google-analytics-tagging.png)

Where can you retrieve your results?
------------------------------------

As soon as the campaign starts, Google Analytics start collecting the
data. In the menu 'Traffic Sources' and in submenu 'Campaigns' you will
find the name of the campaign that you used in the hyperlink
('Newsletter-apr-2011' in this example). It is possible to specify the
results per source, medium and content element from there on.
