When setting up a new mass mailing you’ll find some additional settings
behind the Options tab. The default settings are appropriate to most
users and in most situations. Adjust the settings only if you know what
you’re doing. Below, each of the options are explained in more detail.

Type: Send text version, HTML mailing or both
---------------------------------------------

Some recipients cannot read HTML emails in their email program.
Therefore, it is always a good thing to send a plain text version as
well. By sending both versions you also reduce the chance that your
emails end up in the spam folder. If your document or template has a
text version, it is automatically sent along unless you choose to do not
so.

Do not personalize mailing
--------------------------

Emails sent with Copernica are personalized automatically. If you do not
want your mailing to be personalized, you can check the option to turn
it off. Smarty personalization will not be shown (recipients would just
see the code). Non-personalized emails compile a little bit faster.

This is a test mailing
----------------------

Are you sending a test mailing to a test selection? Check this option if
you do not want the mailing to be registered in the contact history of
the profile. It has no effect on the delivery of the mailing. The
mailing will be sent with the same priority as normal mass mailings,
contrary to individual test mailings (to the test destination) and
transactional mails (they have highest priority).

Embed images
------------

Images can be embedded in the mailing. Optionally, you can send the
images along with the emails, instead of having them hosted on our (of
other) servers. Please be warned, the delivery speed is severely limited
with this option. The delivery of large mailings can take days. Many
email programs (including Gmail) do not support embedding of images;
their users will see your images attached to the email.

Store external images on our servers
------------------------------------

Enable this option in your email template or document makes use of
pictures hosted outside Copernica (not uploaded to the image folder or
to a media library).\
 With this option enabled, the external images will be copied to our
servers and as a result always remain available in in your email. Even
when the original image or its location has been removed later on.

Delivery speed
--------------

If you wish to slow down the delivery of the e-mail, check the 'limit
the delivery' option. For example limit your delivery rate to prevent
your website from being seized by a very large amount of recipients
pointing to your website on the same moment. Note: You can set the
delivery rate more accurately from the delivery settings in the admin
panel.

Statistics
----------

We record the results of all emails sent with Copernica. If you -for
some reason- do not want this for a secific mailing, you can turn it
off.\
 A reason why users sometimes choose to not register statistics, is
because hyperlinks are than no longer  routed through our picservers.
The recipient will see the actual linked domain in the browser status
bar, instead of the picserver domain (default is: pic.vicinity.nl). The
links are personalized at the same time as the rest of the document,
making it no longer necessary to include tons of personalization code in
the hyperlink.
