PDF-lib offers a wealth of text formatting options. However, without the
correct settings, or even small syntax errors, your block content may
disappear entirely. The only thing you see is an empty block.

If you're working with PDF blocks, but you're looking at an empty text
block:

​1. If the text is too large to fit in the block, it will disappear
entirely if textflow is not set to on. Go to the options tab of the PDF
block editor and set the option **TextFlow** to ‘**on**’ and choose to
'**Override template settings**'.

​2. Changes you make are not visible immediately after you store the
modified content and formatting of a text block. To test your changes we
recommend downloading the PDF instead (Document menu \> **Download
Document**).

​3. If you use any font's other than Verdana, you'll need to upload
these fonts to the marketing software. If the font is missing, you won't
see any of the text in your blocks. Make certain that the name of the
font is exactly the same as specified in the text block options. To
upload your font(s), go to *Extra \>***Edit fonts**. \
 \
 4. Every formatting option that is being used inside a PDF block should
override the (default) template setting. This can be activated from the
tab **Options**. Search the option (e.g., FontSize), click it and then
choose ‘**Overide setting from template**’. Optionally, a default value
can be entered here (e.g., FontSize: 12).

**I changed the formatting, and as a result, all my block content is
missing**\
 Text formatting in PDFlib is very strict. Typos or other errors in
formatting options, lists and macro’s may result in an empty output
(your text block will become empty).

Below you see some examples of text formatting in action. If you want to
learn more about the plugin and text formatting, please refer to the
manual provided by PDFlib.

[Download manual in PDF](http://www.pdflib.com/fileadmin/pdflib/pdf/manuals/PDFlib-blocks-E.pdf)

**Image 1.** To make your text formatting changes take effect, set the
text flow to 'on' and overide this setting from the template.
![](../images/pdf1.jpg)

**Image 2.**Some simple text formatting. The output is shown in image 3.

![](../images/pdf2.jpg)

**Image 3.**Output of text block above

![](../images/pdf3.png)

**Image 4.**Some more text formatting

![](../images/pdf4.png)
