The European eCommerce market is thriving. The European market overtook
the world’s largest market, the US, in 2010. Two years later, in 2012
the European B2C eCommerce market grew by 19% ([source: Europe B2C
Ecommerce Report
2013](http://www.ecommerce-europe.eu/website/facts-figures/light-version/download)).
In other words, it’s a booming market in which many hope to achieve
success.

And there are many ways for webshops to achieve a higher conversion. We
wondered how European webshops use [email
marketing](http://www.copernica.com/en/blog/five-ways-to-reinforce-your-ecommerce-activities-with-email-marketing)
in the process of conversion optimization and were especially curious in
what way the e-marketing strategy of abandoned shopcart emails was
applied.

Based on our own experience we know that there are still too much
webshop owners that don’t fully exploit the data they gather from their
webshop. Data obtained from [abandoned shopcarts](./abandonded-shopcarts.md) for
example.

Assisted by partners from Belgium, the Netherlands, France and Germany
we decided to visit several webshops to see if they used this event
driven email campaign and what the differences were per country and per
eCommerce platform used.

Who sends an abandoned shopcart mail?
-------------------------------------

The assignment for ourselves and our partners was clear. Visit several
webshops, subscribe to their newsletter, create an account, fill your
shopcart with different products and see if you’ve received a follow-up
campaign after several weeks. And what did we see?

Only 4,7% (7 out of 146) of the webshops we visited, sent out an
abandoned shopcart email after we left our shopcarts unattended.

![Number of visited
webshops](../images/number-of-visited-webshops.png "Number of visited webshops")

Why do so little etailers use such an effective [email
marketing](http://econsultancy.com/blog/62718-three-essential-email-marketing-tips)
strategy? There could be several reasons. We decided to look at the
possible reasons and noticeable differences per country and per
eCommerce platform.

The difference per eCommerce platform
-------------------------------------

When dealing with webshops there is a wide variety of possible solutions
an etailer can use. The most well-known platforms are
[Magento](http://www.magentocommerce.com/) and
[hybris](http://www.hybris.com/). But apart from these, there are
numerous others such as [Shopware](http://www.shopware.de/), [OXID
eSales](http://www.oxid-esales.com/), [ASP.NET](http://www.asp.net/),
[Intershop](http://www.intershop.com/) and IBM Websphere commerce. These
are the platforms used by the webshops we visited:

![Used eCommerce
platform](../images/used-ecommerce-platform.png "Used eCommerce platform")

The use of these eCommerce platforms varies per country. Shopware and
OXID eSales are popular platforms in Germany. Magento is used a lot in
Germany and the Netherlands while Intershop and Hybris are well known
platforms in Belgium. But we’ll get back on the differences per country
later.

All platforms are very powerful tools, but in all cases they lack
various marketing options. Like the possibility to set up elaborate
email campaigns by using your own HTML template. This is also something
you can see in the results per platform. In 2 out of 146 cases, an
abandoned shopcart mail is sent using Magento, 1 via Intershop, 1 via
IBM Websphere eCommerce, 1 via APS.NET and 1 through a custom made
platform (see figure 3).

“The different eCommerce platforms are primarily capable of sending
transactional emails which are quite basic, such as an order
confirmation or order tracking email. When you want to set up elaborate
email campaigns for your webshop such as an abandoned shopcart email,
you will have to use an email marketing platform,” says to Lonneke
Spinhof, Senior UX Consultant at [HUMIX](http://www.humix.be/)
(Belgium).

![Number of sent abandoned shopcart
mails](../images/number-of-sent-abandoned-shopcart-mails.png "Number of sent abandoned shopcart mails")

That is why it is wise to see whether there are integrations available
that enable you to link you eCommerce platform to your marketing
software system. By saving all of your data in that system, you’ll be
capable of setting up elaborate and highly [personalized email
campaigns](./5-conversion-boosting-e-mail-campaigns.md)
for your clients. Such as abandoned shopcart emails or cross-selling and
up-selling campaigns.

Difference per country
----------------------

*Permission: opt-in & double opt-in*

As mentioned in the beginning of the article we checked the use of email
marketing for several webshops in different countries. Next to the use
of an e-marketing strategy such as an abandoned shopcart strategy, we
also looked at how many of these webshops actually asked for permission
to send emails. This led to some remarkable findings:

![Webshops requesting
opt-in](../images/webshops-requesting-optin.png "Webshops requesting opt-in")

Even though requesting permission to send emails is obligated in all
examined countries, there are still 22 out of 146 webshops we visited
that do not request an opt-in. Next to the normal [opt-in
procedure](./opt-in-and-double-opt-in-do-you-ask-for-permission.md),
we also investigated how many of these webshops actually applied a
double opt-in:

![Use of double
opt-in](../images/use-of-double-optin.png "Use of double opt-in")

Whether or not a webshop uses opt-in and double opt-in is something
which depends on the legislation in each country. For example, in
Germany webshops (and other website owners) are obligated to use double
opt-in for each newsletter subscription. In the following graph you can
find an overview (percentage) of the use of opt-in and double opt-in in
the four countries we visited webshops.

![Opt-in use per
country](../images/opt-in-use-per-country.png "Opt-in use per country")

What stands out in this graph is the low usage of opt-in and double
opt-in in Belgium. And the higher usage of double opt-in in the
Netherlands, Germany and France. It’s of the utmost importance to have
permission to send emails in these three countries.

However the legislation in Germany is even stricter. If you want to send
out campaigns based on order history, you will have to ask for official
permission from the client in order to send these type of campaigns.
Something which doesn’t contribute to the use of these campaigns at all,
confirms Dennis Arquillano of [Atlantis Media
GmbH](http://www.atlantismedia.de/) (Germany).

“We see that a lot of our clients are willing to start using abandoned
shopcart campaigns. But they are held back by German legislation and the
vague and strict rules that have been formulated for these type of
campaigns.”

*Use of abandoned shopcart campaigns per country*

We’ve noticed that there are only a few webshops who use abandoned
shopcart emails. In Germany and Belgium this type of email marketing
isn’t even applied at all in the webshops we visited.

Only 6 webshops in total in France and the Netherlands apply this
strategy (3 in France, 3 in the Netherlands). So why is it that so
little webshops use this type of email campaign? According to Carolien
Hoffman of the Dutch internet agency [Cream](http://www.cream.nl/), one
of the reasons is an unequal distribution of the marketing budget.

“The eCommerce trajectory can be divided roughly into three fases for a
webshop owner: generating traffic to the webshop/acquiring new
customers, making sure these visitors generate an income (conversion
optimization) and stimulating repeat purchases (for example through
email marketing). We can see that most of our clients focus on
generating traffic to their webshop and acquiring new customers, leaving
little or no budget for conversion optimization. Campaigns such as an
abandoned shopcart email are generally used in phase 2 or 3. Something
most webshop owners don’t focus on. Once we show them how much revenue
they miss out on by not using abandoned shopcart mails, most webshop
owners will reconsider the use of these campaigns.”

*Differences found per country*

It can be said that webshops from all countries pay close attention to
using opt-in and double opt-in correctly. However, in countries such as
Belgium and Germany some webshops still tend to ignore these rules.

Furthermore, you would expect the Dutch and German webshops to apply
event driven marketing campaigns. However, as it turns out, French
webshops also use this type of email marketing. “The strategy isn’t that
popular amongst French webshops yet but its popularity is rising. We can
notice this amongst our clients and within the French eCommerce market
as well. The fourth and fourteenth largest webshops in France already
apply abandoned shopcart campaigns. Using this form of event driven
marketing has become a ‘hot topic’ amongst French webshop owners this
past year,” says Sebastien Daunit, project manager at
[aYaline](http://www.ayaline.com/) (France).

That the French eCommerce market is growing rapidly is also pointed out
by results published by Ecommerce Europe. The number of eshoppers in
France has grown with an amazing 500% since 2000 making France the
world’s sixth largest eCommerce market (source: [Europe B2C Ecommerce
Report
2013](http://www.ecommerce-europe.eu/website/facts-figures/light-version/download)).

That same report also tells us that the Dutch and English market have
matured compared to the German and French market. Which means they
didn’t grow in revenue as much as the German and French market in 2012.
While the eCommerce market in the Netherlands is expected to grow by 10
to 15%, the expected growth for Germany and France ranges from 20 to
25%.

Belgium seems to be lingering in the back a bit. This is also pointed
out by Humix: “Belgium is still a bit behind when it comes to eCommerce
and email marketing. Most companies are just taking their first steps
when it comes to email marketing. Which means, working with structured
and segmented email lists and using the basic functions of email
marketing software and eCommerce platforms.”

Conclusion
----------

Although we just visited a small percentage of the total eCommerce
market (there are around 550.000 webshops in Europe) and looked at how
they follow up on abandoned shopcarts, we still found that only a mere 7
out of 146 applied the strategy. Which does tell you something about the
‘popularity’ of this emarketing strategy.

The main reason all of our partners pointed out is the strong focus
webshops put on generating traffic and getting new customers to their
webshop. Leaving no budget or time for providing a better service to
their excisting, loyal customers.

Without knowing it themselves, they are missing out on conversion.
According to our partners they saw an increase in conversion and revenue
once webshops started using abandoned shopcart campaigns. The investment
put in to it is worth every single penny!
