The marketing software automatically keeps track of your website visitor
behaviour.\
All visitor activity on your webpages and active websites hosted within
the software is automatically measured. The results can be found behind
the tabs Website statistics and Web page statistics in the Websites
section.

### Unique page views

A unique page view aggregates page views that are generated by the same
user during the same session.

### Page view

A page view refers to the viewing of a web page on a web site. The
number of page views will tell how many times a page was viewed or how
many pages was viewed on the whole site. This includes duplicate views
by the same visitor. If  a single visitor hits the browser back button,
a page view is recorded for each view.

### Bounce rate

The bounce rate represents the percentage of visitors who enter the site
and "bounce" (leave the site) rather than continue viewing other pages
within the same site.\
 The bounce rate should be as low as possible. If you offer useful
information on a web page try to attract your visitors to other pages as
well (‘You might also be interested in…’) rather than giving them no
other options than leaving the page.

### Clicks and unique clicks

Tells you how many clicks were recorded for a specific hyperlink. If
someone clicks twice on the same link during one session, one unique
click and two clicks are recorded.

### Browsers

The internet browsers used by your website and webpage visitors.

### Traffic sources

A referring URL is the address of the page that a user was on when they
clicked a link to your website or webpage.\
 Direct traffic is generated by users who directly visited your page
(bookmarks, or by entering your website address in the browser address
bar).

### Geomap

Shows you the physical location of your visitors when they visited your
web pages.
