Each mailing sent with the marketing software is provided with extended
reports about the registered clicks, errors, impressions et cetera.

### Mailing statistics

The mailing statistics shows you the results of a single mailing. This
can be both a mass mailing or a mailing sent individually (one
recipient).

You can find the statistics of a specific mailing via *Emailings \>
Mailing menu* \> **Statistics**.

A list with sent mailings is then displayed. **Enter key words** in the
filter bar to locate mailings based on **document name** or **email
subject**.

You may also use the filter options to narrow the search results. To do
so, click **more options** to unfold the options. Click **apply** to
find mailings based on the settings, and **clear** to remove the
settings (and show all mailings).

When you have found your mailing, you can select it from the list and
click **Show full statistics report** to view the report.

To see the statistics for mailings that have been scheduled for later
processing, navigate to the**Scheduled tab**.

### What are template statistics

The template statistics shows you the results of a single template.

A single template can be used for different mailings. The template
statistics shows you the**cumulative results** of all mailings sent with
documents based on the template.

The statistics of a template can be found in the statistics tab of a
template (next to the template source code tab).

### Document statistics

The document statistics displays the results per email document.

One single document can be used in different mailings. For example a
document sent as a confirmation for an event, after the completion of a
registration form. The document statistics will show you
the **cumulative results** for this document.

The statistics of a document can be found in the statistics tab of a
document (next to the template source code tab).

### Splitrun statistics

The split run statistics show you the results of a split run mailing.

The results of the individual test documents sent in the mailing are
displayed in short. The winning document sent to the final group comes
with more detailed information.

To view the results of your split run mailing, go to *Emailings \>
Mailings \> ***Statistics**.

Find the mailing in the list.

### Account emailing statistics

The account emailing statistics show you the results of all emailings
sent with the account, over a set period of time.

This period of time can be modified in the top right corner of the
account statistics screen. Changing this period of time affects all data
displayed on this page.

The way in which the account statistics are presented is not different
from the other statistics.

#### View the account emailing statistics

To view the account statistics, choose **Account emailing
statistics** from the **Mailings menu**.

**Note: **The account emailing statistics are not the same as the
account statistics. These statistics can be found in the admin section.
