# Installing Google's V8 engine

PHP-JS depends on the [Google V8 Javascript engine](https://code.google.com/p/v8/) 
to parse and execute user supplied Javascripts. To install PHP-JS, you 
therefore first have to make sure that you have the V8 engine installed on your system.

The frustrating point here is that the V8 engine is updated all the time, and
that it is mainly developed to be used inside Google's own Chrome browser. The 
guys at Google do not have good documentation online about how to use or install 
it, and it is also not advisable to rely on a precompiled V8 engine that is 
available in standard Linux repositories, as that version is probably outdated.

If you insist, you can follow the [official Google tutorial](https://developers.google.com/v8/build)
to install V8, but we think it is too vague, so we created our own step by
step walkthrough.


## Download & install depot_tools

It is not possible to download the latest V8 source code from a website or FTP
server. To get the source, you need to access Google's own GIT repository. 
Google created its own wrapper to access their repository, which is called "depot_tools".
Before you can even download the V8 source code, you therefore first need to 
install this "depot_tools" package.

Depot_tools has its own [tutorial](http://dev.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/install-depot-tools), 
but again we provide our own here.

Using the terminal, navigate to the directory where you want to store depot_tools 
(your home directory is often good enough) and download the project using the 
following terminal command:

```bash 
git clone https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/tools/depot_tools.git 
```

This creates a "depot_tools" directory that is full of utilities and commands
that are needed to access Google repositories. The next thing that you have to
do is include this "depot_tools" directory in your PATH variable, so that the
instructions become accessible.

Below is the command to update your PATH variable. Do not exit the terminal, 
or your path variable will be reset to the default.

```bash
export PATH=`pwd`/depot_tools:"$PATH"
```

To test if depot_tools is correctly configured, type the following command:

```bash
gclient 
```

If installed correctly, a list of possible commands appears, and a .gclient
directory is created in your home directory. (When I gave the "gclient" command I had the
feeling that I did something wrong, because the output looks like an error 
message, but that is OK, you only have to give the command to ensure that this 
.gclient directory is created).


## Download & build V8

Next up is downloading the actual V8 source code. Navigate to the folder
where you want to store the V8 source folder (once again, your home directory
is often good enough). The "depot_tools" that you have just installed provides
the "fetch" command that can now be used for downloading V8:

```bash
fetch v8
cd v8
```

This might take some time. After downloading is complete, you
will be put inside the v8 source directory. By default, the "fetch" command
lets you use the most up-to-date (unstable!) version of the v8 engine. This might 
work for you, but often this version will simply segfault.

The version we have tested with - and that seems to work - is 5.2. There might
be newer versions available too, but those we haven't tested so we can't say for
sure PHP-JS will work with them.

To select this version to be built, execute the following command:


```bash
git checkout 5.2
```

You can now build v8, using the following command:

```bash
make library=shared i18nsupport=off native 
```

This can take some time. You might wonder why we include the "library=shared", 
"i18nsupport=off" and "native" command line arguments, because they are not
included in the official documentation on installing V8.

Well, the _native_ argument makes sure V8 is built for your current platform, and
is optimized for your CPU and other hardware. 

The _library=shared_ tells the compiler to build V8 as a shared library instead 
of as a static library (which is the default). PHP-JS is a PHP extension, and PHP 
loads all its extensions as shared object files, and shared object files can not
be linked with static libraries, so we need V8 to be available as a shared library.

The _i18nsupport=off_ makes sure that the compiler will not build the i18n library
that is included in the downloaded v8 source. The i18n library is already 
installed on your system, and we found out that it is better to use this system 
wide default i18n installation, instead of the version that is included in the v8 source.
This prevents clashes between the system i18n library and the v8-provided i18n library 
(the shared object names are the same and a package update could wipe it, or - if you 
install it in some other directory - won't find it).


## Install V8

After building v8, you have to install it on your server. If you have experience 
with compiling, you'd expect that some sort of "make install" could be used here,
but the v8 Makefile does not support the *install* option. You therefore will
have to copy all the relevant v8 files to the appropriate directories on your
system.

This can be done in two steps: first you copy the include files, and then the
shared library files. The target of the copy operation is a matter of taste, you 
should either copy the header files to the system wide /usr/include directory, and 
the shared object files to /usr/lib, or - if you are more of a purist, and want to
reserve the /usr directory for automatically installed packages - to the
/usr/local/include and /usr/local/lib directories:

Approach 1:

```bash
sudo cp include/*.h /usr/include
sudo cp out/native/lib.target/libv8.so /usr/lib 
```

The alternative, more purist approach:

```bash
sudo cp include/*.h /usr/local/include
sudo cp out/native/lib.target/libv8.so /usr/local/lib 
```

That's it! You now have successfully installed Google's V8 JavaScript Engine. One
more step is sometimes necessary to update the cache of available shared libraries:

```bash
sudo ldconfig
```

After you've done all that, please don't remove the v8 build folder. As there are
some files of it that we'll need to actually build PHP-JS.
