Test mails have the highest priority on our task servers, which means
that they will be sent to the test destination, right after you hit the
send button. Sometimes it seems that test mails are not delivered, or
with a delay. We realize this can be very annoying. However, before
informing our support department, can you please check if the following
might be the case first?

### Spam folder\

Please check your spam folder. If your test email ended up in your spam
folder, check carefully whether you test mail meets the requirements of
a good email (it has a low spamscore).\

### Other folders\

Check the folders in your email program. Many human beings create
folders to filter emails maintain overview in their inboxes. Possibly
your test mail ended up in one of those folders.\

### Check the test profile\

Make sure that the test email was actually sent. Go to the profile or
subprofile that you have set as the test destination (and where the test
mails are thus sent to). In the Campaigns tab, you can see which emails
have been sent to this profile and when. It also show you the progress
of the delivery (such as delivery errors, delivery attempts, recorded
impressions and so on). Use the '*normal mailings*' dropdown below to
only show test mails that were sent to this profile or subprofile.\
 Is your email there? When it says that the email is delivered, then the
email left our system and it is received by the SMTP server of the email
address. Therefore, there is possibly something wrong with the host
server. If this is the case, you might contact your technical
department, and ask them where the email's at.

Note: when it keeps saying 'email compiled' at the profile (which is
quite rare), the email probably got stuck in our system. Please contact
our support department. \

### Can it be grey listing?\

Sometimes the receiving mail server using grey listing. The first 2 or 3
delivery attempts will be blocked, and only then it will let your test
mail through. If this is the case it will take much longer before you
test mail reaches your inbox. \

### Have you tried a different address already?\

Try to send a test mail to a different address. For example send a test
mail to your private addresss, or that of a colleague. Does the email
now arrive within the expected time, then the fault is probably not with
us.

### Are you using Gmail?

If you are subsequently sending test mails to your Gmail address, Gmail
tends to block your test emails temporarily.

### Tried and checked all of the above?

If you have checked and tried all of the above, and the mail still isn't
ariving within a reasonable amount of time, please contact our support
department.\

